KOGITO-3211 Introducting CI example with Kogito SW, Knative and Camel (#351)
kiegroup/kogito-examples: serverless-workflow-github-showcase/github-service/README.md

## GitHub API Wrapper Service

> This service responsibility is to manage GitHub API calls and to provide authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This service's responsibility is to manage GitHub API calls and to provide authentication
```

> tokens every 5 minutes to make valid calls to the App API. It exposes three REST functions to interact with

Author: To make GitHub API calls? I don't follow, do you want me to rephrase the paragraph? Have any suggestions?

> tokens every 5 minutes to make valid calls to the App API. It exposes three REST functions to interact with

Reviewer 2: so maybe change to "to make valid calls to the GitHub API"?

the GitHub API. The table below lists the provided endpoints:

| Function | Endpoint | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| Add Labels        | POST `/repo/{user}/{repository}/pr/{id}/labels`    | Adds a list of labels to the given Pull Request |
| Add Reviewers     | POST `/repo/{user}/{repository}/pr/{id}/reviewers` | Adds a list of reviewers the the given Pull Request |
| Get changed files | GET `/repo/{user}/{repository}/pr/{id}/files`      | Fetches for the changed files in a given Pull Request |

### Configuring your GitHub App

For this service to work, you will need to create a new GitHub App and install it
in one or more repositories to be able to make changes to its PRs or Issues.

By creating a GitHub App, it will provide a private key which can be used by this
service to interact with the GitHub API.

#### Creating a new GitHub App

[Follow the GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/developers/apps/setting-up-your-development-environment-to-create-a-github-app) to create a new GitHub App and 
a private key.

> When asked to set permissions, choose "Access: Read & Write" for **Issues** and **Pull Requests**. In "Subscribe to Events" section set "Pull request".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When asked to set permissions, choose "Access: Read & Write" for **Issues** and **Pull Requests**. Then, in "Subscribe to Events" section set "Pull request".
```

> This way you will be able to make changes in the repositories' PRs that you've installed the GitHub App.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way you will be able to make changes in the repositories' PRs where you've installed the GitHub App.
```

Convert the downloaded private key from PEM to DER format with the following command:
 
```shell-script
openssl pkcs8 -topk8 -inform PEM -outform DER -in ~/github-api-app.private-key.pem -out ~/github-api-app.private-key.der -nocrypt
```

Replace the file `~/github-api-app.private-key.pem` with your local path.

This will generate a private key in DER format which we will use to generate the GitHub
API tokens on demand.

#### Installing the App in one or more repositories

It's recommended to install the GitHub App in a test repository to not mess with 
your account or organizations.

Create a new repository, then go to your [Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/apps),
click on "Edit" button next to your GitHub App, then click on "Install App", choose your account and install it in the test repository you just created.

### Trying the service locally

Now you have the GitHub App, a test repository and a private key. It's time to try
the application locally.

Clone this repo if you haven't yet, edit the file [`src/main/resources/application.properties`](src/main/resources/application.properties)
and add the following data:

```properties

> org.kogito.examples.sw.github.service.key=<LOCAL PATH FOR YOUR DER FILE>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
org.kogito.examples.sw.github.service.key=<LOCAL PATH TO YOUR DER FILE>
```

org.kogito.examples.sw.github.service.installation_id=<APP INSTALLATION ID>
org.kogito.examples.sw.github.service.app_id=<APP ID>
``` 

> Replace `<LOCAL PATH FOR YOUR DER FILE>` with the absolute path of the converted private key file (DER format).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `<LOCAL PATH TO YOUR DER FILE>` with the absolute path of the converted private key file (DER format).
```

The installation id is in the end of the URL, e.g.: `https://github.com/settings/installations/12345`.

The `<APP_ID>` is the number displayed in the App Dashboard. 
Click in the "App settings" link to be redirected to the dashboard.

Having everything in place, start the Quarkus application with the following command:

```shell script
mvn clean quarkus:dev
```

Then access the Swagger UI to play around with the API: http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui

:warning: **Important**:

1. Open a test PR to have some data to play with
2. Invite a friend to be a contributor to your repo, so you can make the service request for their review in the PRs :kissing:

### Deploying on Kubernetes

> **IMPORTANT! :warning:** we assume you have read the prerequisites section in the main
> [README file](../README.md). Please follow those instructions before continuing.

**Heads up!** This service will be deployed as a Knative Service instead of a regular Kubernetes
Deployment.

To make things easier for you, we left a script in this directory to generate the template
files, build the application and the image, and then deploy it to your Kubernetes cluster.

> You can run the script once and all the required files will be generated for you in 

Reviewer: please precise that user should be authenticated to the Kube cluster

Author: Incorporated to all 3 services! Thanks!

Copying blob 2af0e1f1e531 skipped: already exists  
Copying blob 88cc1a200eb9 skipped: already exists  
Copying blob 20d186c995c3 done  
Copying blob 3168c26b96c6 done  
Copying blob 80d01ad5c537 skipped: already exists  
Copying config 7c555a3060 done  
Writing manifest to image destination
Copying config 7c555a3060 [--------------------------------------] 0.0b / 6.2KiB
Writing manifest to image destination
Writing manifest to image destination
Storing signatures
---> Applying objects to the cluster in the namespace kogito-github.
configmap/github-service-properties unchanged
secret/github-app-ids unchanged
secret/github-app-key unchanged
service.serving.knative.dev/github-service configured
```

To verify if the service have been correctly deployed run:

```
$ kubectl get ksvc github-service  -n kogito-github

NAME             URL                                               LATESTCREATED          LATESTREADY            READY   REASON
github-service   http://github-service.kogito-github.example.com   github-service-7frvw   github-service-7frvw   True    
```

The `READY` column should be true.

#### Exposing the service on Minikube

> If you're running on another cluster than Minikube, the service route exposed by Knative Serving probably are accessible for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're running on another cluster than Minikube, the service's route exposed by Knative Serving is probably accessible to you.
```

On Minikube there are some additional steps to be made. 

Run a new terminal window:

```shell script
minikube tunnel
```

Leave the process executing and then execute:

```shell script
./expose-on-minikube.sh
```

This script will fetch the Minikube IP exposed by the `tunnel` command and add the route to your local `/etc/hosts` file.

You can then access the service via the service URL:

```
$  kubectl get ksvc github-service  -n kogito-github --output jsonpath="{.status.url}"

http://github-service.kogito-github.example.com
```

As we did when running through the `jar` file, we can access the Swagger UI and play around with the API: 

http://github-service.kogito-github.example.com/swagger-ui

The first query may take a little time to return since Knative will start the service's pod on demand. 
After some time the pod will just terminate. 

> Congratulations! The GitHub functions is now available in the cluster ready to be consumed by the Kogito Workflow.

Reviewer: Maybe add a cleanup part, for the `/etc/hosts` file
